---
title: 2024-05-10
draft: false
date created: 2024-05-10
last modified: 2024-05-10 11:18:31 AM
date: 2024-05-10
type: entry
---

# **[[2024-05-10]]** | *11:18:31 AM*

Recently I came across a material of [Cal Newport](https://calnewport.com/) talking about how important it is for our minds to be in periods of intermittent solitude. It is important that we get to be *alone* with our thoughts. I can't remember exactly when and where I heard him say that first. I've been cycling between materials (videos, podcasts, articles, etc.) wherein he's present. Though I probably should've put that here in my [[_index-dailies|dailies]] so I could accurately reference it as I please.

His point is this:

Regular moments of calm allow us to have a clear understanding of our thoughts. In the modern world, he says, (I'm paraphrasing so there are no quotation marks), we get bombarded by information that come from other minds. It's never so much that we get the chance to reflect on the intricacies of our feelings, thoughts, emotions, and *contexts* in the context of our mind. It's always he said this, he said that, like it's a flurry of information we dind't ask for at all. I used to write about this phenomenon in multiple journal entries. [^1] [^2]

I would say I'm comfortable with my *own* thoughts. I'm comfortable sitting with them, examining them, and ruminating on them. I can mull over my thoughts and emotions for as long and as detailed as I like. This is why I have tons of writing in my journals[^3] in the first place. I would also like to add that I've observed myself thriving in environments like this public journal, where things are pretty much just all over the place. There's no specific pathway I should follow, or that I should think of, or that I should consider, other than **just capturing my thoughts**. Surely, I tend to beat around the bush sometimes, especially when I'm trying to distill an idea. But that's part of my thinking process. I tend to go circles around a *context*[^4] for me to understand what it *actually* is. I skirt the edges of the idea, and when I have properly exhausted the information from the perspectives given by the outer circle, only then could I move on to the more fundamental, inner levels of it.

Such is my thinking process: a messy, I-legitimately-do-not-know-what-the-fuck-this-is thing -- like the scribbles of a child, except in the form of words. A sketch, if you will, to examine, understand, and contextualize the world. ^3d267b

[^1]: [[2024-05-02#^d2c15a|Case study 1]]: "And when OP said, "I also realized I don't need to know about what others are doing all the time, especially people I don't talk to daily or even at all in day-to-day life", I felt that shit. I felt it like an annoying little itch in my soul has finally been scratched. I felt *noticed*."
[^2]: [[index#^ffa7aa|Case study 2:]] "As you probably could pick up on my [[I'm quitting social media|blog post]] regarding quitting social media, I cringe at the idea of broadcasting my life to the public. As if it's something people *need* to know about! As if they need to know that I felt this way at this exact timestamp, that I meant to say this rather than that, that I ate fucking corn for breakfast, and that I liked Taylor Swift's new album..."
[^3]: Yes, I have multiple journals. I call my personal journal `Ian's Zettelkasten V2`, and I also have another one called `Ian's Zettelksaten`, which I'd already ditched due to the overwhelming need to re-structure everything from a [Projects, Areas, Resources, Archives or PARA Method](https://fortelabs.com/blog/para/) to a more unstructured, free-flowing, [rhizomatic](https://criticalphysio.net/2015/01/22/metaphors-of-rhizomatic-thinking/) way of note-taking. It's ironic that I tried to use the PARA method alongside the Zettelkasten and [[digital garden|digital gardening]], which led me to an insurmountable amount of conditions to check before formally capturing an idea. How I see it is this: I was more worried about the *structure* upon which my notes rest -- the sort of *specifics*, rather than the *form* of the ideas themselves. I talk more about this philosophy [[index#^b2406c|here]].
[^4]: I'd noticed myself use this word a lot in this journal -- context. What is it, and why do I bother with it? Here's a quick [[_index-dailies#^bd1c7a|explanation]] for it, though in coding and development terms: "...[T]hose are what I mentioned in the line above, where I talked about the **developer's notebook**: [A]nything from bugs, unique features, shortcuts, interventions, best practices, and other, unique, contextual, and experience-based lessons..." If we extrapolate from this snippet, a core definition of a *context* could be simply an idea, thought, or concept that is used to build upon more *contexts*. It's not necessarily a core idea, as in the body of a tree from which branches of ideas grow. Rather, it is a representation of the formal manifestation of an idea. It is the *proof* of something, a sort of identification in my public journal, if you will. A *context* can be anything, depending on its application.