---
title: 2024-05-02
draft: false
date created: 2024-05-02
last modified: 2024-05-02 12:31:50 PM
date: 2024-05-02
type: entry
---

**[[2024-05-02]]** | *12:31:51 PM*

Hello there. I'm suffering from my third gout flareup in ≈4 weeks. It sucks. But here I am sucking it up, like everyone else. I've been spending quite a bit of my time on [r/gout](https://www.reddit.com/r/gout/) recently, just so I could feel like I'm *at least* not alone in my struggles.

It's been a heavy couple of weeks. I'd been absent on important F2F meetings, both at work and at university. In university, I've been absent for two weeks of my classes already. It's a shitty time. In all honesty, I'd rather not write this shit anymore, but it's one of the few things that I'm genuinely looking forward to doing. In this state (as in mental state), I've just been going through the motions. The pain in my foot, the pain in my lower-left abdomen, the heat in the Philippines, my dirty room, my stagnant career, and everything else. 

Part of me feels like it's wrong that I'm even sharing my condition people, including some very specific people (which I'd rather not disclose, as this is really sensitive information). It feels almost... wrong. It's almost as if a huge part of me is saying, "As if they care?"

I know that my sickness is just some hindrance achieving the next business goal, whatever KPI that may be. And I don't feel bad about that. As a matter of fact, I kind of accepted it already, that I'm just some sort of cog in the system. Easily replaceable. It's generally annoying that I feel almost desensitized from *my* reality because I have to think about the reality of something else.

I'd read about this somewhere. This sense of alienation in a world where you're pretty much part of what reinforces the very web of capitalism, even if you don't want to. In a sense, I'm forced to comply. As a libertarian, that shit rings a bell so loud I want to quit my job on the spot, right here, right now. But the unfortunate reality is I have bills to pay, I have responsibilities to attend to, and it just isn't a good, practical idea to quit my job at the moment, despite the countless reasons I have to support the opposite.

My health is declining, the prices of goods in the Philippines is constantly rising whilst my pay remains the same, my bills keep getting higher due to my increasing need in terms of my health, and a bunch more. I can't even buy my prescription glasses anymore, for fuck's sake, even when I technically could. Just because spending something *for myself* feels almost... bad. Like I shouldn't do that, because there are more important matters at hand, like the upcoming electricity bill. 

I find it a tad comical that, whenever I have the urge to buy something I *want*, I compare them with the things I constantly *need* to pay... and if what I want is the same price as something I need, I immediately wouldn't have the urge to buy it anymore. Like the experience isn't the same at all. There's an overwhelming level of guilt. It kills the joy of working hard so I could buy something I want. 

It becomes, "I choose to buy this stupid thing, instead of what I need."