---
title: 2024-05-03
draft: false
date created: 2024-05-03
last modified: 2024-05-03 01:49:10 PM
date: 2024-05-03
type: entry
---

**[[2024-05-03]]** | *01:49:11 PM*

Hey there. Honestly, nothing much to write today. Busy day today, and I really have to cram a client project that's been sitting on my to-do list for at a day or two. It's due in 2 days but I have to finish it today, so wish me luck!

**[[2024-05-03]]** | *08:21:48 PM*

Hey there. I started working on the project at a time later than 1:49:11 PM, I'm pretty sure. A lot of things got in the way, but I would say today was an OK day. I also feel a lot better now, thanks to the medications the Doctor gave me. I'm exporting the initial export of the project now, so I could compare and contrast it with the other versions that I might make for the project. It's nice getting a little bit of a refreshser in After Effects, especially with my fascination for the procedural things I could do with it.

I'm obsessed with procedural design, and it really shows. In the context of 3D, I love working with procedural textures. Nodes, basically. In the world of After Effects, procedural stuff could be something as simple as `roughen edges`. I'm enamored by the idea of getting instant feedback on something you're making. The speed of feedback when working with procedural effects allows you to learn and explore in a manner that otherwise wouldn't have been possible with other methods. I might expound on this later, once I get more time.