---
title: hatch_2024-05-08
draft: false
date created: 2024-05-08
last modified: 2024-05-08 11:41:06 AM
date: 2024-05-08
type: entry
---

# **[[2024-05-08]]** | *11:41:39 AM*

## Previous Feedback from Mountain Dew

- Starting ideas are good but let’s push to make sure the alcohol proposition is clear and inspiring enough for KOLs to do content out of. 
- Items should also be functional that could be used regularly such as mixers, ice buckets, etc. 
- Retain items that would help push the buddy drinking activities such as the Bingo cards. Add in items that could help generate our KOLs for content like a disposable camera, etc. Think of other ideas for this as well.

## Brainstorming Session Pre-Work:

- 2 functional drinking-related items used by a friend circle (eg. Mixer, ice bucket, etc.)
- 2 activity items that can facilitate barkada moments with Dew Dragon (eg. Bingo cards, drinking cards, etc.)

## Ideas:
### Drinking-related items
- **Customized cocktail shaker.** The idea is straightforward -- it's for mixing Hard Dew with other drinks such as spirits, for example.
	- *Unique element:* Measurement guides can have fun copy, where a specific line references a specific level of fun.
- **Mountain Dew Karaoke Microphone.** *(h/t Gelo)*. A Bluetooth karaoke microphone with Dew Dragon branding. It references the *fun* and *spontaneous* side of drinking, rather than the more *reckless* side.
- **Multi-functional Dew Dragon-branded drinking mats.** A *practical* tool for KOLs and friend circles or barkadas when they're doing alcohol-related activities. For one, it's reusable in different contexts. It can be a bar mat, but at the same time a Drunk Dice mat.
### Barkada moment-related items
- **Dew Dragon Drunk Dice.** A dice game that encourage various *fun* activities such as, for example, dares. This games prompt "memorable nights" with friends, and is to be used with the inverse side of the drinking mat.
- **Never Have I Ever.** A deck of Dew Dragon-themed hand-held cards with fun prompts and *adventurous* or *daring* questions to spark *memorable* and *thrilling* moments.