## Metadata
* URL: [https://www.calnewport.com/blog/2022/08/08/new-study-confirms-the-value-of-solitude/](https://www.calnewport.com/blog/2022/08/08/new-study-confirms-the-value-of-solitude/)
* Author: Cal Newport
* Publisher: calnewport.com
* Published Date: 2022-08-09


## Highlights
* In my book Digital Minimalism, I emphasized the danger of a newly-emerged condition that I called “solitude deprivation.” As I wrote, the introduction of the smartphone caused our relationship with distraction to mutate into something new: “At the slightest hint of boredom, you can now surreptitiously glance at any number of apps or mobile-adapted websites that have been optimized to provide you an immediate and satisfying dose of input from other minds. It’s now possible to completely banish solitude from your life.”
* Us humans evolved to experience significant amounts of time alone with our own thoughts. Remove this solitude from our lives and we’re not only bound to get twitchy and anxious, but we miss out on much of the subtle but deep value generated by a wandering mind.
* the paper reports benefits to losing yourself in thought, finding that this state can “aid problem solving, increase creativity, enhance the imagination and contribute to a sense of self-worth.”
* Kou Murayama, the lead author of the study, noted that the subjects underestimated the value of contemplation, and in many cases worried that this activity would be a negative experience. They often preferred the easy distraction provided by technology such as smartphones.
* We fear solitude, but it’s exactly this time alone with our own thoughts that we need to make sense of our experiences and grow as humans.
* TikTok is fun, but grappling with the core questions of our existence is fundamental.
* liminal
  * **Note**: Adjective, technical. 1) relating to a transitional or initial stage of a process. 2) occupying a position at, or on both sides of, a boundary or threshold.
