---
title: 2024-05-05
draft: false
date created: 2024-05-05
last modified: 2024-05-05 01:09:05 AM
date: 2024-05-05
type: entry
---

# **[[2024-05-05]]** | *01:09:06 AM*

GitHub's version control is fucking amazing. I'll write about this later since it's already 01:09:38 AM! 😂

# **[[2024-05-05]]** | *02:17:48 PM*

Heya! I just woke up a while ago around 11:00 AM. I did a few preliminary things like get food and fix a few things before I could formally write stuff down in my public journal. You know, I've been kinda thinking of a creative way to refer to my public journal. I've been thinking something along the lines of the following:

- Public Journey
- Public Jelly
- Peanut Butter and Journals
- Peanut Butter and Jellies

>[!INFO]-
>I thought about these as I lied down in bed last night, when I thought of my [[2024-05-04#** 2024-05-04 ** *11 55 41 PM*|Espanso matches]]. I thought to myself, my public journal's `trigger` is `;pbj` -- what if I could think if something that approximates that to call my journal, as opposed to Alexander's Thoughts? To be fair, Alexander's thoughts sounds a bit... pretentious, lol.

I'm thinking these are quite fun to refer to my approach in journaling -- fun, not button-up and uptight, but at the same time exciting (like you won't know what's coming -- and isn't that kinda the point of this public journal?)!

As much as I want to dive deep into what I wrote above at [[_dailies/2024-05-05#** 2024-05-05 ** *01 09 06 AM*|1:09:06 AM]], I would really love if I could restart my coding journey today. I think that's the priority this week, so I'll set aside writing my ideas regarding [[the power of github's version control|GitHub's version control]], and then possibly put something about that in the future. In the meantime, I'll make sure to put it in [[00_idea-dump|my idea dump!]]

# **[[2024-05-05]]** | *09:56:14 PM*

I just got off a call with a friend. It's nice that I got to talk to someone after quite some time. It's nice that I also got some time to spend with myself during the weekend. I finally finished the commissioned project I was talking about (an informative motion graphics video) in [[2024-05-03]]. Well technically, I'd already finished about 92% of the thing when I wrote that entry, but I added the final touches today. It went really well, and I had fun doing it, after quite some time of spending the bulk of my professional efforts away from After Effects.

I also spent some of my time today coding, and I finally decided to make what I call a [[_index-dailies#_dev|dev log]].

I originally encountered the idea from [Nicole van der Hoeven](https://www.google.com/search?q=nicole%20van%20der%20hoeven) in one of her [videos](https://youtu.be/zoeQ5yNoXsY?t=591), where she talked about [Espanso](https://espanso.org/). Here's what I have to say about the [[_index-dailies#_dev|dev log]]:


